[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I'm Robert Grant,
and this is the Code-X.
[THEME MUSIC]
In 2018, I published
a paper titled
"The Accurate and Infinite
Prediction of Prime Numbers
Using a Novel
Quasi-Prime Methodology."
In this paper, I was
able to figure out
how to predict prime
numbers, something
that I had learned back in grade
school was an impossibility.
The way that I came to
it was by figuring out
that numbers actually
operate in spirals of 24
repeating over and
over and over again.
As I looked at numbers
in 24, I noticed also
that the Fibonacci
pattern also repeats
when you look at it in
digital route mathematics,
collapsing every number
down to single digits.
For example, 27 would
be 2 plus 7 equals 9.
In looking at it
this way, I noticed
that all the Fibonacci
numbers would repeat
themselves every 24 cycles.
So I thought there must
actually be something
that's very fundamental to 24.
So as I wondered what
that relationship to 24
might actually be,
I couldn't also help
but think about the famous words
of the late great physicist
Stephen Hawking who posited
that in order for us
to have a unified physics
model for the universe,
that we would have to also
solve prior to that time
the relationship between
mathematical constants
like pi, and the golden
number phi, and many others.
As I thought about that,
I also couldn't help
but think about the
relationship to music.
As mathematician
throughout history
have very often
also been musicians,
Pythagoras is probably the
first great example of that.
Pythagoras taught us that math
and music are actually one.
What Pythagoras noticed
was that if he continued
to play with strings and cut
a string down small enough,
he could actually
see the relationship
if you always did
it in halves that
would cause doubling and
halving of octaves infinitely,
all the way up until we could
no longer hear sound anymore.
At a certain stage at about
20,000 cycles per second,
human beings can't hear anymore
the notes that go above that
but they actually continue
to go all the way up.
This was fascinating to me.
This concept of music and
math being the same thing.
So I thought to
myself, wouldn't it
be possible to relate musical
notes to prime numbers?
And if I could relate musical
notes to prime numbers,
would I not then also be
able to relate musical notes
to mathematical constants and
see what those relationships
might actually yield for us?
So through that process,
I did exactly that.
The seminal effort
was really tied
to the simple concept of
what if I dropped two pebbles
into a still pond?
What happens with the waves
that overlap each other?
And as they crash
into each other,
they create these intersections.
And as these
intersections basically
create wave interferences
within themselves,
both constructive and
destructive interference
patterns emerge.
I posited then also
that possibly where
those waves are
intersecting is exactly
relational to a modular
arithmetic or a view
in spirituality
of the number 24.
And it turned out to be correct.
24 is a basic pattern
that represents
both a sine and
cosine relationship.
And you might remember
back in school
we all studied sine and cosine
relationships in both geometry
and trigonometry.
I started thinking about this
a little bit more deeply.
And as I got deeper
and deeper into it,
I realized that this is
just a beautiful language.
This language that we can
see in the form of geometry,
and really that geometry
is nothing more than just
the sound that we
enjoy with our eyes.
I learned more and more
about this relationship
of these musical
notes and how what
I have been seeing with my eyes
my entire life could actually
even be represented as just
wave patterns of sound.
Now, 24, you could break it
into two pieces and both sides
would be 12, and this is why we
have 12 notes in each octave.
And as we double an
octave then, of course,
24 goes to 48 by doubling
it again, and so on.
So here again, the entire
prime number pattern
repeats itself
infinitely through
a musical representation
in such a beautiful way.
One other aspect
of this as well is
that the sound that we listen to
and the musical notes we listen
to are actually directly
related to the geometries.
In fact, the geometries
that underlie
those sounds might actually help
us to understand more about how
to precisely tune those sounds
to our greatest benefit.
And that's one of
the things that's
been a long term dream
of mine, that one day I
would be able to figure out
how to tune our DNA like keys
on a piano keyboard with
very high precision.
Because I believe that
the healing mechanisms
will not be pharmacologic in the
future but rather sound-based.
Because sound is able to
penetrate through our bodies,
through all of our cells.
And if we could figure out
how to precisely tune it,
might that not have a
big impact on our biology
and our own wellness
and well-being?
You know, Leonardo da Vinci
also faced a similar challenge.
Right in the Vitruvian
man, most people
don't notice that there's
actually a page number written
in the upper right-hand corner
of the Vitruvian man, which
is kind of bizarre
because first of all,
it's not written backwards
in mirrored text.
If you notice, you'll see in
the upper right-hand corner
it looks to be right
adjacent to a fold line
as if it's a page in a book.
There's also a backwards
mirrored text of the letter B
that's tail is pointing
straight to a number.
Now, that number as we get
close up on it is actually 126.
Now, this was something that was
really sort of enigmatic for me
when I first saw it
because first of all,
was the Vitruvian
man part of a book?
Not really.
It was a loose leaf
representation of one
of his sketches.
But why would he write
the number 126 as
if it's a page number
and then point to it
with a backwards letter B?
Well, I had to go even
further into understanding
what da Vinci might
be referring to,
and it takes you
all the way back
to around the fourth century
BC where Plato is actually
speaking to the Greek Senate
at a time of great unrest
in his country of Greece.
>> The unrest was due to the
great plague of Athens that
swept through the city in 430
BC during the Peloponnesian War
that claimed nearly
100,000 lives.
In an attempt to stop
the spread of the plague,
leaders in Greece
sought the help
of famed philosopher Plato.
After Plato failed
to find a solution,
they consulted the Oracle
of Delphi who told them,
"the simple solution is you must
double the size of the altar
to the sun God Apollo,
and if you can perfectly
double its volume, then
the plague will dissipate."
In short, the ancient
Greeks had to solve
the mathematical problem of
doubling the volume of a cube.
>> The answer turns out
to be the cubed root of 2,
which is approximately 1.26.
Now, this has a very, very
important relationship
to music itself.
Pythagoras had taught us that in
order to form a musical scale,
we can do it with
a perfect fifth.
And the perfect fifth
relationship is 3/2.
So in terms of music,
if you know music well,
you could say that a perfect
fifth relationship for the note
C at middle C would
become a G note.
From this, you
can figure out how
to populate a lot of the scale.
But in order to complete
an entire scale,
you must also include
something called a major third.
Now, the major third is
a mathematical interval
relationship that was defined
by Pythagoras as being 5/4,
or 1.25.
The challenge is,
though, is that if you
start to populate a scale using
the interval that Pythagoras
had actually outlined
in something called just
tuning starting with 432
Hertz as your A note,
after a while, when you start
taking those intervals of 3/2
to populate the
next perfect fifth
as well as the major
third relationship of 5/4,
you find a discrepancy emerges.
It becomes impossible to
actually double the octave
through the major third.
So this is a real challenge.
Musically, Pythagoras
taught us, well, we
can make up for this
challenge by replacing
this method of just tuning
with another approach that
uses something called a
Pythagorean comma, which sort
of makes up for this
slight difference that
in octave doubling creates this
discrepancy that doesn't allow
you to double the octave.
But the problem is no
different than the solution
that had to be found during
the plague in ancient Greece.
I had the idea to replace
the 1.25 using just
tuning with 1.26 instead,
the cubed root of 2.
Now, in this
context, we actually
see the symmetry
that nature can apply
of the perfect fifth which is
3/2 as well as a new approach
to a major third using
the cubed root of 2.
So as we get deeper
into this, we
can now see that
using this new tuning
approach which I decided to name
"precise temperament tuning,"
we can find that every note
in this context starting
from 432 Hertz will also
have a digital sum of 9
without exception.
But unlike most
tuning standards that
end at an approach that would
kind of have a whole number
value, this goes into
fractional representations.
Equal temperament
tuning does as well,
but this is very
different because even
the fractional decimal
extension, even every one
of those numbers in
every three digits
will sum to the number 9.
This happens naturally as a
consequence of simply replacing
the cubed root of 2, 1.26,
for the prior 1.25 5/4
major third relationship.
This is an extraordinarily
controversial topic
amongst the musical community.
Prior to 1939, there
was no tuning standard.
In 1939, an international
organization
decided to put together
a global tuning
standard it was headed
by John D Rockefeller
and his organization.
At that time, they decided
that although many people
around the globe were using
different tuning standards,
they wanted to standardize
it to a simple for 440 Hertz.
Now, the challenge with
that was that if we add up 4
plus 4 plus 0 doesn't equal 9.
It must answer at 9.
If not, it will not
have a perfect geometric
correspondence.
And as I said, geometry
is simply the music
that we listen to with
our eyes and our sight.
Maybe when music
has been written
by the likes of Bach
and Verdi and Mozart,
they intended to have
certain notes have
certain emotional qualities
and texture and context
come along with them.
There's a certain
quality that is
intended to provide a contrast.
Does our current equal
temperament system provide us
with that degree of
contrast reference?
And I don't believe it does.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So what happens if we
now change that process?
Let's have a listen to see
what precise temperament
tuning sounds like.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Isn't that beautiful?
Now, where else do we see music
coming in the form of matter?
Well, we see it in even the
periodic table of elements.
Now, Mendeleev refers
to the periodic table
on a linear table but nothing
in nature is on a linear table.
Instead, it's a spiral.
We've renamed that the "periodic
wave of elements," where
every single element
in the periodic wave
is just another
musical representation
from a family of notes
created from perfect fifths
and major thirds.
Even isotope relationships
on this periodic wave
are created from the musical
interval relationships
that exist inherent to nature.
All of it operating off
the simple principle
as well of a base 9 mathematics.
If we look at the polygons that
are all around us every day,
an equilateral triangle
is a good place to start.
Equilateral meaning that
it has three angles that
are interior angles
and each is 60 degrees.
They sum to 180 degrees.
Notice, 1 plus 8
plus 0 equals 9.
Let's move on to a
square 360 degrees
are the sum of angles of the
interior angles of a square.
360 degrees is 3 plus
6 plus 0 equals 9.
How about moving on
now to a pentagon?
540 degrees is the sum
of its interior angles,
5 plus 4 plus 0 equals 9.
Now, what if we
made a conversion
for those different geometric
forms that we call polygons
and we converted simply
each of their values
into Hertz frequencies using
the exact same conversion value?
What do we get?
Well, nothing other
than the most beautiful
five-part harmony of
F sharp major chord.
What we're seeing with
our eyes is really
just the F sharp major
chord in five-part harmony,
and we're looking at it as
polygonal geometric forms.
Now, you might ask, well, is
this true for three-dimensional
geometry as well?
And how about hyper
cubes and tesseracts?
The answer is yes, you will
not find a geometric form that
exists in the Archimedean
solids or Platonic solids
or what's also
called and referred
to as the Catalan
dual solids even that
doesn't sum to the number 9.
If this is the
case, shouldn't we
be looking differently
at how and what
we allow the music to
enter into our lives to be?
Maybe also this is why we're so
attracted to geometric forms.
Maybe at a subtle
level, our brains
are nothing more
than QR code readers
as we look at
geometry all around us
every moment of
every day, always
looking for the
signature of the source.
And often, we see
that represented
as mathematical
constants and one of them
in particular the
golden ratio, 1.618.
The golden ratio defines
what we look at and conceive
as beautiful around us, just
as it does so in music as well.
The golden ratio is
based off of a number
series called the Fibonacci
series of numbers.
So as we look at each
of these numbers,
we notice that the
relationship between each
of these successive numbers,
the larger the number becomes
is 1.618 multiplied
by the prior number.
Maybe this relationship
is something so much more
fundamental that we should all
be studying to understand it
because it becomes the
signature of universal source.
Is it possible that even the
geometry that we see around us
is formed simply by some
musical note that is either
above our audible spectrum,
or below our audible spectrum?
Sound emanating out
from the silence,
is that also what is
separating light from darkness?
As we look at a unification
theory of science,
I can't help but think about
the famous words of Leonardo da
Vinci, "learn the art of science
and study the science of art."
Realize that everything
is connected.
Learn how to see.
I believe fundamentally that the
way for us to learn how to see
is, first and
foremost, to notice
that everything is connected.
There is no action that
we see in this world that
doesn't have an underlying
relationship to another action.
We're all connected through
that series of myriad
of interactions that most of
which cannot even be perceived
by us but they're always there.
A good way to look at
the universe around us
is to notice that even
in things like cymatics
we can see new
structure and new form
and new organization and
new pattern in our universe.
It's a beautiful thing.
I believe that the entire
universe is patterned.
What we refer to as random
is really only the parts
of the universe that we haven't
figured out the encryptions
for yet.
The encryption exists,
the pattern exists,
it's just above
and beyond our zone
of perception and intelligence.
Let me talk a little
bit about dimensions.
Let's start with a simple line.
A line is the first dimension.
Now, let's place another
access point on that line,
and now we can measure those
two points of intersection
and finish them
out in mirror form,
now we have a square
or any other form.
We measure that an area.
The next form would be to
pop that out with a z-axis
so that we can see the third
dimension of that cube now.
So the square turns into a cube.
But the next form after
that would actually
be a cube that would rotate.
Now, we think about a cube
as the third dimension
but it's stationary.
In order for us to
experience life,
all life is in
motion, therefore we
have to accept and
understand that we
live in the fourth dimension,
where the fourth dimension is
the axis of motion.
We measure motion through time.
The next dimension is
simply an expansion of time.
We see time as a linear
one-way street function.
But the principles of music and
physics would point to the fact
that all dimensions of
time exist simultaneously.
And if that is so, then
the next experience
for us as a higher
dimension, as we
push the boundary
of the persistence
of our own perception
will be to experience
different dimensions happening
simultaneously of time itself.
We call that the
fifth dimension.
And we can look at this as a
musical relationship as well.
In fact, we can say that
the first dimension could
be measured as the number 6.
6, then, of course, we could
take it to the next dimension
that it would go 6-squared.
So 6-squared would be 36.
And we can also add
a simple 0 to that
which makes it 360,
immediately, we think
of the 360 degrees of a circle.
Then the next level
is going to be
to take that to the next power.
6 to the 3rd power, equals 216.
We can add a 0 to that
and interestingly,
it turns out to be
the form of a cube
because the sum of angles
of a cube is 2,160 degrees.
Now, we take that to the
next level, we get 1,296.
Isn't that number another number
that shows up somewhere else?
In fact, it is.
It shows up in the compass.
A compass has one
1,296,000 seconds.
Does that then mean that a
compass is actually the best
reference for measuring time?
Time and space are inseparable.
Maybe our experience
with time now
must also expand
to the next level
because if we took
it to the next power
again by adding
those zeros to it,
it goes which 1, 2, 9, 6 which
was 6 to the 4th power, 6
to the 5th power becomes 7,776.
Does that mean now that we
have more volume with which
to measure a hypercube
in motion that
is no longer in one direction
but can go multiple directions?
As we contemplate these
very deep questions,
we have to ask ourselves,
who is the conductor
behind this beautiful
symphony that's
happening all around us every
single day of our entire lives?
Most times, we don't even notice
what's happening around us,
and think about all the
things we miss out on.
But as we learn the language of
universal consciousness, which
is a language based on music
and light mixed with dark,
we can actually see the
creation all around us
in every single moment
of our experience.
When we do that, we
start to feel at one.
[MUSIC PLAYING]